Vas-y, vas-y!
Vas-y, suivez-moi!
II'
Sir Josiah.
How can the French do that?
Get rid of their king
in an afternoon?
They have done it before.
There are revolutions
all across Europe.
Vienna, Berlin...
Leopold is worried
about Belgium.
Thank God
for the English Channel.
I'm not sure
that it will be enough.
Ideas can swim.
II'
Order!
As foreign secretary,
I have congratulated
the new French Republic
on their liberation
from an odious tyrant.
And I act
with the full support
of the prime minister.
The autocrats of Europe will lie
uneasy in their beds tonight,
knowing that the French people
have risen up
against an unjust king.
Order!
There is a tide
of liberty abroad,
which, taken at the flood,
will lead on to fortune.
II'
Marron glacé.
My favorite!
Emma...
It's such a comfort
to have you back.
I'm against party politics,
of course,
but my... Whig ladies are
so much more attentive.
And my new mistress of the robes
has settled in nicely.
Haven't you, Sophie?
I'm afraid my grasp of protocol
is woeful.
I have no idea
whether a bishop should
take precedence over a marquis.
My husband is afraid
I shall make some terrible gaffe.
Not at all,
my dear... your enthusiasm
more than makes up
for your inexperience.
I'm not worried in the least,
Duchess.
I like to have my friends
about me.
When 1 think
of poor Louis. Philippe...
Without our permission?
Then Lord Palmerston needs
to explain himself.
After you, sir.
God bless you, Palm!
God bless you.
You have such a vulgar
following, Palmerston.
There's nothing vulgar
about the British public,
Russell. Oh!
II'
Oh!
No time for that, Mr. Penge.
Prime minister and Lord
Palmerston are on their way.
Palmerston, eh?
Make sure you stay
out of sight, girls.
No woman is safe.
II'
Afternoon.
Prime Minister.
Your Majesty.
Your Majesty,
Your Royal Highness.
Do you know why
we asked you here?
Because I'm an asset
to any gathering, ma'am?
We have been informed that you
have been corresponding
with the revolutionary
government in France.
I wrote to Monsieur Lamartine
to congratulate him
on his speedy resolution
to the crisis.
You congratulated
him on deposing the king.
Did you approve this, Prime Minister?
I can't say
that I actually approved...
I acted on my own initiative, ma'am.
You had no right to do
such a thing in our...
In the queen's name.
Perhaps not, sir,
but I speak for the people.
They believe that the day
when Europe is ruled by despots
is coming to an end.
You forget, Lord Palmerston,
that you are talking
about our family and friends.
I'm sure that in the future,
the foreign secretary will send
copies of his correspondence
here first.
You seem very sure
of what the people think,
Lord Palmerston.
I make it my business, ma'am.
The British public
is like a beautiful woman.
And wish to glory
in her smiles-.
II'
King Louis Philippe
has been forced to flee
with his tail between his legs.
I wonder where he'll go.
As long as he knows
he's not welcome here.
Judging from the size of you,
you must be the new footman.
Joseph Weld, sir.
And where do you come from,
Joseph?
Uh, Chatsworth, sir.
I was Her Grace's footman.
From what I hear,
I am surprised she could part
with a strapping fellow
like you.
The duke gave me
a very good character, sir.
Chatsworth is a fair-sized
establishment, I dare say,
but this is the palace,
and we expect
the highest standards
from our servants.
Yes, sir.
II'
And I say to you,
this is a time of reckoning
for working men everywhere!
Louis Philippe has abdicated
because the French people
would not tolerate aristocracy
anylongefl.
And I say the time has come
for the workers of this country
to do the same!
I believe we should swear
allegiance not to the queen,
but to the People's Charter.
And I say, Cuffay,
that no good will come of this
kind of revolutionary talk.
We will win the day not by
force, but by numbers!
When the government sees
the multitudes
marching on London to present
our petition signed by millions,
they will understand
there is no power greater
than that of the people!
What's your name?
Samuel Price.
I'm Abigail.
Make your mark there, Mr. Price,
and {will write your name
beside it.
II'
I have to get back to the queen.
No...
But we're engaged.
Mm. We have to wait!
I'm not leaving here
in disgrace.
II'
Victoria, listen.
"The proletarians have nothing
to lose but their chains.
They have a world to win."
Who said that?
A Chartist? Ah, no, no.
It is, um... Karl Marx.
He is a German, but I believe
he's living in Manchester.
We cannot be too complacent.
II'
Eight tens are 80,
eight 11s are 88,
and eight 12s are 96.
Would you like me
to do it in French now,
Lady Lyttelton? Not now, dear.
It's Bertie's turn.
But Bertie hates multiplication,
don't you, Bertie?
I like... running!
II'
Papa. Bertie.
Good afternoon, Mama.
Good afternoon.
Do I not get a curtsy?
You are not the sovereign, Papa.
Oh, I see.
May I try it on, Mama?
Be careful, darling,
it's very heavy.
Shall we see how
you look in it, Bertie?
Crowns are for girls!
A letter, ma'am.
Thank you.
Ah, ah, ah.
Louis Philippe.
Asking if we will...
take him in.
II'
Whoa!
Albert, we can't turn him away!
No, perhaps not, but my fear is
that if we start allowing this
palace to become a sanctuary...
Your Majesty.
Oh, I beg your pardon, sir.
Your Majesty,
your sister is here.
II'
Feodora?
Oh, Feo.
It is you!
II'
How, why...
Drina!
Look at you.
Fee...
have not stopped for three days.
And this is cousin Albert.
Oh, I am so happy to meet you...
At last.
And the children.
This must be Vicky,
such a kleine médchen.
And this...
This is little Albert.
Oh, he looks just like you did
at that age, Drina.
And so many children!
And another one along the way.
This is... so unexpected.
I had no time to write.
I was so frightened
that the mob would catch me.
Mob?
Bertie, Vicky, come along.
I was taking the waters in Baden
when the riots started
against the king.
I could
not go back to Langenburg
to my husband and my children.
It was too dangerous.
And so I exchanged clothes
with my maid,
took a place in a coach
to Ostend.
I was so frightened
I would be recognized.
Not for myself, of course,
but for my connection to you.
You did the right thing.
Mm. Yes, indeed.
I am so glad to see you.
After all these years.
My own dear little sister.
II'
She doesn't
look like a princess.
Her Serene Highness
Princess Feodora.
The queen's half-sister.
Fallen on hard times.
I didn't know she had a sister.
From her mother's
first marriage.
I think weld all forgotten.
Even the queen.
II'
To arrive like that
with no warning.
Really, it's...
Well, her life was in danger.
How long is she going to stay?
It's hardly convenient
at the moment,
and we've got Louis Philippe
to deal with.
Victoria.
She's your sister.
It's not like you and Ernest.
I hardly know her.
She left me to get married
when I was...
Oh, forgive me!
I was looking for my room and...
I am lost.
What a change
from dear Kensington.
Everything here is so...
imposing.
Hmm.
II'
Oh, Bertie.
It is not a toy»
it's for doing sums.
Bertie!
Give this to Aunt Feo
and apologize
for being so clumsy.
Sorry, Aunt Feo.
Look.
There's a hole in your skirt.
Oh.
Such moths in Langenburg.
Why didn't you get your maid
to sew it up?
Listen to this.
"We need the forcible overthrow"
"of all existing
social conditions."
"Workers of the world, unite."
Karl Marx.
The communist?
Well,
Mr. Marx should be told that the English
are never going
to unite with foreigners.
Well, actually, Victoria,
there are reports
of Chartists going to Paris
to congratulate Lamartine.
That doesn't mean
they're going to unite with him.
Well, how can you be so sure?
You, you know nothing
of how these people live.
You do?
No.
But I am going to find out.
II'
Here you are, Mrs. Skerrett.
24 pairs,
with a number and initial
on each one.
Very nice, as usual.
I can never get stitches
that small.
I always try to give
satisfaction.
And I need the work, so...
I... didn't take you
for a Chartist, Abigail.
Born to it, you might say.
My father was at Peterloo.
And you believe
in these Six Points'?
Working men need the vote.
And what about working women?
Rome wasn't built in a day.
Stop it!
Do you think you could contrive
to leave the palace for an hour?
I have something
I want to show you.
What is it'?
Surprise.
II'
All of these
people, they live here?
Yes, sir.
Thank you, sir.
Thank you.
There are 14 people living
in there.
They are human beings,
yet they are being forced
to live like vermin.
The rich man in his castle,
The poor man at his gate.
God made them high and lowly.
And ordered their estate.
I don't think God has
anything to do with this,
Lord Alfred.
Do you?
No, I don't.
II'
I used to come here with you,
on that little Shetland pony.
King George gave you.
Nasty animal.
It was always biting me.
Such happy times.
That's not
how I remember Kensington.
But you left when I was...
Nine.
Your departure was so sudden.
But, of course,
you were in a hurry
to get married.
What about you, Sophie?
Were you in a fever
of impatience to start
your married life?
My mother was.
She always wanted me
to be a duchess.
I couldn't wait to marry
the prince.
But, of course,
I had other ties.
My money's on the Englishman.
Very good, sir.
Come on, Billy.
II'
This is just
how the mob sounded in Baden.
Are you sure we are safe
in the open, Drina?
I don't need to hide
from my subjects.
Ooh, get up, up, up, up, up!
Two, three, four...
Go on!
Get him! Go on!
Yes!
Yeah!
Well played, sir.
What on Earth is causing
that commotion?
Lord Palmerston, ma'am.
II'
Are you mad?
Peaceably if we may,
forcibly if we must, O'Connor.
We need the support
of respectable people.
They won't vote for a mob,
Cuffay.
Awful, awful man.
Do you know what I saw today?
I saw 14 people
living in one room...
He was in the park,
cavorting with the crowds
as if he were
P.T. Barnum himself.
Albert, he's vulgar!
I do apologize, Your Majesty.
The prime minister
and the foreign secretary
are waiting in the drawing room,
Your Majesty.
They insist it is a matter
of some urgency, ma'am.
Oh, Lord, what now?
Uh... Palmer is "Pilger"
in German,
and stone is "Stein," so...
take your time.
I do not mind keeping
Lord Pilgerstein waiting.
It has everything
we're looking for, Nancy.
Five parlor bedrooms
and a dining room that seats 50.
Perfect!
I hope this is the right time
to be doing this.
Why wouldn't it be?
We're working people,
just like them.
I've spent my whole life
trying to be more than that.
This collar,
the queen got me this,
and these stockings.
She made me, Charles.
What am I going to be
without her?
You underestimate yourself.
Hmm.
Prime Minister. Your Majesty.
Please, sit.
You have urgent business,
Prime Minister?
I'm afraid
the Chartists, ma'am,
seem minded to follow
the example of the French.
There have been disturbances
across the capital...
PALMERS believe what the prime
minister is trying to say
is that the Chartists mean
revolution, ma'am.
But then we, the ruling class,
must give them an alternative.
If we give the vote
to an illiterate mob,
we're signing
our own death warrants, sir.
Only today,
Lord Palmerston, I have seen
people living in conditions
which are infernal.
We must do something otherwise.
With respect, sir,
now is not the time
for do-gooding.
The Chartists are
planning a mass protest
on April the 10th,
that in our opinion...
Will be the spark
that lights the tinderbox.
But do you have any proof?
Don't believe
my people wish me harm.
I imagine that's what
Louis Philippe thought, ma'am.
Well, you can ask him yourself
at dinner tomorrow.
Unless you have a boxing match
you wish to go to.
I am sorry to bother you,
but my wig...
It's molting.
Some of the pomade fell
into the prince's tea.
He didn't notice,
but, but Mr. Penge did.
Oh, don't mind Mr. Penge.
He hates anything new
on principle.
I was the youngest
to ever make first footman
in Chatsworth,
but here...
It's not easy working here.
Penge is a curmudgeon.
The wages are terrible.
But...
When I'm with Her Majesty
doing her hair, well...
She isn'tjust a lady of fashion.
She relies on me
to look her best.
And...
Maybe it's silly, but...
When I send her out there,
looking like a queen,
I feel like I'm making
a little part of history.
Um...
Goose fat and white lead.
That's what this wig needs.
II'
Shall I come back, ma'am?
Do you think they hate me,
Skerrett?
Who, ma'am?
Chartists.
Do they want to...
cut off my head?
Kill my children?
Course they don't.
Chartists are ordinary
working people, ma'am.
Not murderers.
I can introduce you to one,
if you like.
She does some
of Your Majesty's embroidery.
Victoria.
Louis Philippe is arriving.
Yes.
II'
I've been so cold.
Thank you for taking me in.
We are only repaying
your hospitality.
You are welcome
while you are considering
your future.
Alas, I have no future.
Like the prodigal son,
I have squandered my patrimony,
the love of my people.
And your family?
Scattered across Europe.
Pray that I will live
to see them again.
I do pray
I will see my family again.
But at least I have
the consolation
of my beloved sister.
I hope I do not bring trouble
with me.
Am not popular
wit your countrymen,
ma chére cousins.
You're our guest,
Louis Philippe.
That's all that matters.
II'
I don't want to be
the stupid king!
Don't worry,
I know Bertie's part.
Oh. What a temper.
He's just cross with himself.
My son's the same...
He hates being in the wrong.
Victoria,
he has to learn to control himself.
He's passionate.
Mama, Papa, I'm still
performing.
LOUIS PHILIPPE: I'm listening,
my little Jeanne d'Arc.
Shall we go back onstage?
If we are to act
against the Chartists,
we will need evidence
of a conspiracy.
Put agents in place
after the riots, Prime Minister,
but these things take time.
We don't have time.
Just get the proof, man.
Whatever it takes.
I don't know why we don't
just lock them all up.
If the crowds that cheer you on
could hear you now.
They know I'm a patriot first
and foremost, Russell.
I wish you would call me
"Prime Minister."
Liberty and confusion abroad,
peace and stability at home.
That's my motto...
Prime Minister.
We must be ready to take action,
peaceably if we may,
forcibly if we must.
Yes.
Eh, where do I sign?
Just here, Mr...?
Fitzgerald, Patrick Fitzgerald.
What happened to your finger?
I got too close
to an English musket.
Fighting for my home,
I was being evicted
so my Lord Wexfords cattle
could graze unimpeded.
Hmm.
We welcome our Irish brethren
to the cause,
Mr. Fitzgerald.
He has no right to be there!
Yeah!
The ruling class
can no longer prosper
by trampling on working men.
And what about working women?
Do they not get trampled on,
too?
Oh, they know
how to take care of themselves.
Just make sure
that Palmerston is sat
at the other end of the table.
I don't want that awful,
booming voice in my ear.
And do ask your husband, Sophie.
He might be able to keep
the foreign secretary in check.
And Feodora,
you should sit next
to Palmerston.
You can tell him
about your ordeal in Baden.
You'll have to excuse me, Drina,
but I have nothing suitable
to wear.
Well, you must look
through some of my clothes.
After all, I have no use
for them at the moment.
You are so thoughtful, Drina,
but don't you think the skirts
would be a little short?
Well,
I suppose you're a little taller than me.
Hmm.
But perhaps
Skerrett can add a ruffle.
She's so clever
at things like that.
Hmm.
II'
Aunt Feo.
Why are you making that face,
Aunt Feo?
Lam remembering an old friend.
A fat friend.
That is your great-uncle
George, Bertie.
We used to have tea together.
And we would always have
meringues,
because he knew they...
They were my favorite.
I love meringues.
Hmm.
One day, Bertie,
you will be a king,
just like him.
No, I won't,
because in Britain,
we have queens.
Would you like to be a queen,
Aunt Fee?
What a funny boy you are.
Skerrett.
My sister wants
some new clothes.
I thought perhaps
you could alter some of mine.
Certainly, ma'am.
Who's this?
May I present Abigail Turner.
I mentioned her to you
yesterday.
Miss Turner is acquainted
with the Chartists, ma'am.
My ministers tell me
you want to get rid of me
and found a republic.
No, Your Majesty.
We want justice,
not revolution. Really?
Well, the quarrel, ma'am,
is not with you,
but with a government
that gives the working man
no voice in his own affairs.
Haw bald ynu are, Miss Turner.
Well, my father used to say
my tongue was sharper
than my needle,
but I mean no disrespect,
Your Majesty.
Well, I shall take you
at your word.
But only because
Skerrett has vouched for you.
II'
Ma'am.
How are you finding
your duties, my dear?
Not too taxing, 1 hope-.
I think the queen finds me
satisfactory.
In fact, she gave me this. Hmm.
Fetching.
What a shame
you're wearing it incorrectly.
Sophie, the queen asked me
if you'd look over
the place cards.
She says you are so good
at these things.
Just so you know,
there is no correct place
for you to wear the brooch
from the queen.
Did you know that my father
was once a shopkeeper?
Really?
Mine was a parson, but I try
not to hold it against him.
What a lucky man you are,
Monmouth.
And she's as rich
as Croesus, too, I hear.
I don't need reminding
that her family are little more
than grocers, Palmerston.
The famous Lord Palmerston,
who was so quick to acknowledge
the new republic.
I congratulated
the new government
on resolving a period of...
instability.
You know,
if I was not a Frenchman,
should wish to be an Englishman.
And if were? Not %an Englishman,
should wish to be...
an Englishman.
Prime Minister. Ma'am.
Duke.
You must forgive me for stealing
your wife from you.
She's such a charming companion.
I'm delighted
that you think so, ma'am.
II'
Feodora!
How... different you look.
It's funny, when we lived
at Kensington,
you used to wear my clothes,
and new am wearing yours.
Louis Philippe, will you take
my sister into dinner?
There is some consolation
in exile after all.
I think we'll have over
a million signatures
by the time we take this
to Parliament.
If we ever get there.
Of course we will.
The government would like
to ban us completely.
And if Cuffay starts a riot
because the French king
is staying with the queen,
they won't hesitate.
Well, surely Cuffay
is not stupid enough
to go to the palace.
Isn't he?
How long will the king be
staying with you, ma'am?
For as long as he needs to.
I appreciate your loyalty
to a fellow sovereign.
1 just hope there
are no? Repercussions.
There is no danger of that.
I know where my duty lies...
My people know that.
Oh, I hope so.
These days you can't
be too careful
with the company you keep.
Indeed I can't, Lord Palmerston.
It appears that diplomacy
is not one of your talents,
Foreign Secretary.
Perhaps, but patriotism is.
I would hate to see the queen
suffer the same fate
as her guest.
And you dare to say that to me.
Public opinion
is a fickle beast.
If the queen continues to
surround herself with...
foreigners,
I can't be answerable
for the consequences.
That's enough.
II'
Hello again.
Can I help you with that?
What have you got in there?
Gold bullion?
Her Majesty's undergarments,
if you please.
Working for the queen?
And you a Chartist?
The Chartists have no quarrel
with Her Majesty.
And the work's well paid.
I wish there was more of it.
Well, I'm surprised a
fine-looking woman like you
doesn't have a husband
to provide for her.
The franchise comes first,
Mr. Fitzgerald.
I want to marry a free man.
"A vote for every man
over 21 years of age of sound mind
"and not undergoing punishment
for crime.
Payment for members
of Parliament."
Perhaps I will run
in the next election.
Hear ye, hear ye!
The Honorable Archibald Brodie.
"One man, one vote" indeed.
If you want mob rule,
go live in France.
Do you have the vote, Mr. Penge?
I think a man like yourself
is worthy of a say
in the management
of his country's affairs.
Thank you, Mr. Francatelli.
The world is changing,
Mr. Penge.
I'm afraid
Lord Palmerston is right.
I have brought you
nothing but trouble.
Absolutely not.
If anyone has brought trouble,
it's...
Lord Palmerston.
Victoria, it is from Leopold.
He is in Ostend» the revolution
has spread to Belgium.
I think it is time that
we left for the Isle of Wight.
Osborne House is ready now,
we can head there.
I'm not going to run away.
You should listen to your
husband, ma chére.
My father lost his head
to Madame La Guillotine.
{want you to share the
{same fate-
The Chartists want the vote.
Not a republic.
Well, how can you be so sure?
Because we are English, Albert.
We may grumble, we may protest.
We are not
a revolutionary people.
The French king is eating
roast beef in the palace.
But he should be in the Tower!
Say we should rectify
the situation}.
It's the drink talking,
Samuel Cuffay!
Remember what Mr. UConnor says!
We're a movement, not a mob!
That's why the French
have a republic
and we have a charter. Go home!
And sleep it off, Cuffay.
Vive la republic!
Would you like me
to keep an eye on him?
Are you sure you know
what you're doing?
You can rely on me, Ms. Turner.
To the palace! To the palace!
Do you know how to play?
The evenings are long
in Langenburg.
Oh, I would be delighted
to have an opponent.
I really am sorry
that your first visit
is at such a difficult time.
Victoria should have
asked you sooner.
I am just happy to be here.
At last.
I want so much to be of use.
Well, in that case, you can help
me try and persuade Victoria
to go to Osborne.
She is, um...
rather stubborn.
Stubborn.
I see it in Bertie, also.
But can sen Bertie to the
nursery when he has a tantrum-.
Victoria is lucky
to have a husband like you.
Check.
I can see you are,
as the English say,
beating me at my own game.
There are police reports
of rioting
connected with the...
He was a thorn in your side
when he was king of France.
He's causing you more trouble
now he's here.
You should never have
let him come.
You, Lord Palmerston, are quick
to applaud revolution abroad,
but what have you done for
the workers of this country?
Do you ever deign to look out of
the window of your carriage?
This country needs more
than bluster»
it needs change.
I think the Chartists might
agree with you, sir.
Lord Palmerston.
You have my permission
to withd raw.
II'
I cannot tolerate that man
anylongen
Russell, of course I believe
in a constitutional monarchy,
but this must not continue.
Such a man is not fit
to be foreign secretary.
You must dismiss him.
If only I could, ma'am.
II'
Did she call for my head?
The queen said
she would be happy
to accept your resignation.
And you had to tell her
that even though
you'd like nothing better
than to be rid of me,
you need my support
in the Commons.
Otherwise, you will be defeated
in the next vote.
Good evening, Duchess...
Where are you off to?
Lord Palmerston, Prime Minister.
Duchess.
I am just on my way home.
Alone? Where's Monmouth?
At his club, I imagine.
Isn't that where men of fashion
go at this hour?
I wouldn't.
Perhaps I should take you.
You shall do no such thing.
We have to go back to the House.
And the duchess should may here.
The streets are not safe.
My master has spoken.
Another time, perhaps.
Please see this is taken
to my room.
With pleasure, Your Grace.
She's a duchess,
and you're a footman.
Murmur one.
You're not at Chatsworth
anymore, Joseph.
You'll do well to remember that.
Understood, Mr. Penge.
I'd like to send him
to the Tower!
Yes, but on one point,
he was right.
This situation is too unstable.
We must leave London.
I have told you, Albert,
I will not run away!
Wellington would call it
a tactical retreat!
The Chartists are angry,
Victoria, and rightly so!
The ruling class
have failed them.
This is a time of revolution,
and we are vulnerable.
I do not wish to scare you,
but when think of the future...
We have no choice.
We will leave tomorrow.
II'
Rise up... vive la republic!
Vive la republic!
II'
We've found a hotel.
Now it's time we set a date.
I thought the queen
would be safe.
I can't leave her now.
She needs me. No, no, darling.
She employs you.
I'm the one that needs you.
So much.
II'
Vive Ia republic!
Vive la republic!
We should take the train
tomorrow morning.
Please ensure
the household is ready.
Yes, sir.
Liebes, are you all right?
Are you hurt? Raise the alarm!
My love, we must go.
We must go now!
Now!
No, Albert, not now.
My waters...
Albert...
Everything will be all right.
II'
Vive Ia republic!
Vive la republic!
Get back!
Get away from the fence!
What's happening?
Barbarians are
at the gate, Your Grace.
Mon die...
Sir, I don't think
it's safe for you to be here.
II'
Death to the queen!